Data_Cleaning_and_Exploration.md
I used colors.py and magic_DSK.ipynb to get started on the data.
There was one small issue I ran into was when I was gathering data with colors.py.
The draft game dataset only includes games and cards, but no information about the cards themselves (such as their costs, colors, types, etc.). So, because my analysis involved colors and color pairs, I used an API for Magic cardsets call Scryfall to gather all the cards within Dsukmourn. While parsing and cleaning data I ran into an error that took me a while to solve, but basically the Scryfall API included a card that was digital-exclusive.

Magic has the paper set, which is commonly used and played, but the online client M:TG Arena has a few online-exclusive cards that take advantage of the online medium to implement unique card ideas and mecahnics. There is a card in Duskmourn called "Leyline of Resonance" that worked extremely strong with a few of the online-exclusive cards, so much so that it had to get nerfed in power for the online-exclusive format only. The way M:TG Arena handled this was to create a separate A-Leyline of Resonance (A standing for "Alchemy," the name of the online format) that would be used in the online-exclusive format, and the regular Leyline of Resonance being used everywhere else.

 This card was listed on Scryfall within the set of Duskmourn cards, so when I pulled the list of cards and went down the list for each one, my code had problems when it found A-Leyline of Resonance on the Scryfall card list but failed to find it within the draft game dataset. 

 The solution for this was to just manually delete "A-Leyline of Resonance" from the card name/color file generated by colors.py.

 Funnily enough, a similar card had this problem in Bloomburrow as I would find out later on, the card being "Hearthfire Hero" and the related "A-Hearthfire Hero."